### Version

This project is an early research prototype. It has not been tested across different systems.
It is version-controlled and features virtual environment control (uv and renv) and should run with minimal setup effort.

### Use of AI

AI was used as a support tool for coding, analysis, and output generation in this project.

### Scripts

The scripts are designed to work in this order:

1) 1_api_calls.py (generates data_authors_raw.json, data_authors_ids.json and data_authors_works_raw.json)
2) 2_wrangling.py (generates data_analysis_raw.json and author_works_check.csv)
3) 3_preprocessing.R (generates data_analysis.rds)
4) 4_analysis.R
5) 5_visualization.R

A brief explanation of each script is given at the beginning of each script.

### Data

Data is generated by the scripts.

- data_authors_raw.json:       list of 1000 randomly accessed OpenAlex authors
- data_authors_ids.json:       above cleaned as only IDs of the authors
- data_authors_works_raw.json: contains all works of the authors
- data_analysis_raw.json:      above cleaned data for ingestion in R
- author_works_check.csv:      snippet of data_analysis_raw.json in .csv format, for visual inspection
- data_analysis.rds:           final data, used for all downstream analysis

### Exact replication disclaimer:

After careful consideration, I chose not to publish the exact dataset used to create the output files.

Although all information used is publicly available via the OpenAlex API, the scripts identify migration events at the level of individual researchers.

For this reason, the data is not distributed.

To reproduce the results, you will need to request the data yourself from the OpenAlex API using the provided scripts.

### Output

I provided the aggregated results of my exact calculations in /output.

### For Python scripts:

The virtual environment must be activated in the console.

`uv sync`

It is recommended to run the scripts from the project root.

### For R scripts:

Preinstalling and loading "renv" and "here" is mandatory for the scripts to run as intended.

`install.packages(c("renv", "here"))`

`library("here")`

`library("renv")`

It is recommended to start the R session by opening the project.Rproj file and then open the scripts from the scripts folder.

Before loading the renv virtual environment, it must be restored.

`renv::restore()`